---
title: Core Framework v2 2.3.0
title-version: 2017 October 6
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping two new releases:

* **xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.3.0`**
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter 2.3.0

It's been nearly 8 months since the release of [`2.2.0`](2.2.0). That was strongly aligned with .NET Core 1.0, and in the intervening time, that team has now shipped a substantial 2.0 update. Similarly, xUnit.net 2.3 feels like it has a much improved experience for .NET Core users (both 1.x and 2.x).

One of the core reasons we've done xUnit.net has been to improve the day-to-day unit testing experience for .NET developers. At a previous job, we had discussions about adding Roslyn code analyzers to xUnit.net as a way to make our guidance more concrete. These rules and fixes would represent our knowledge with issues commonly faced by unit testers in general, and xUnit.net users in particular. [Marcin Dobosz](https://github.com/marcind), one of our co-workers at the time, has stepped up and has done a tremendous job with the [xUnit.net Analyzers](https://github.com/xunit/xunit.analyzers) project. Although this hasn't yet reached 1.0 status, we've already started including them when you reference the `xunit` meta-package; as a result, you will see our guidance light up as warnings and errors in your code.

Visual Studio 2017 has seen some substantial improvements since its release 7 months ago, with some great things on the horizon with 15.4 and 15.5. We are currently working on updated templates for the next release of the .NET SDK and a future update to Visual Studio 2017 which will include 2.3 references.

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you are using Visual Studio 2013, you must use NuGet 2.12 or later to use xUnit.net 2.3, because support for `netstandard` is required. You will not be able to use xUnit.net 2.3 with Visual Studio 2012 (if Visual Studio 2012 support is important, please stick with xUnit.net 2.1, the last version that officially supported 2012).

> [!NOTE]
> As a reminder: If you're extending xUnit.net and want to publish your extension as a NuGet package, you should import `xunit.extensibility.core` and/or `xunit.extensibility.execution`, not `xunit` or `xunit.core`. If you do this wrong, you might have problems generating your NuGet package via `dotnet pack`.

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `2.2.0` to `2.3.0`.

### General

* As mentioned above, the `xunit` meta-package now includes a reference to the `xunit.analyzers` package automatically. We feel most users will benefit from these helpful rules and fixes. If you decide you would like to opt out, please remove your reference to `xunit`, and instead add references to `xunit.core` and `xunit.assert`.

* A significant amount of work was put into general performance improvements. The largest performance gains will be experienced by users who are running tests in the desktop CLR with app domains enabled (the default behavior). Additionally, we have spent time optimizing performance in the Visual Studio Test Explorer experience.

* This is the first version to fully support .NET Core 2.0, and the support for .NET Core 1.0 has been greatly improved. In particular, users who noticed that we were copying large numbers of dependent DLLs will be happy to note that we have found a way around that. Also, any users who were previously trying to use libraries with native components (for example, `System.Data.SqlClient`) from .NET Core should now be able to properly use these packages (this fix affects all versions of .NET Core).

### Core Framework

* We added the ability to disable cross-collection parallelization for individual test collections, via the test collection definition (by setting `[CollectionDefinition(DisableParallelization = true)]`). Parallel-capable test collections will be run first (in parallel), followed by parallel-disabled test collections (run sequentially).

* Updated `TheoryData` to support up to 10 data parameters.

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where grandparent and higher classes were not being correctly traversed to find test method info.

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue when running .NET Core 1.x tests would fail if the .NET 2.0 SDK was being used.

* **BUG:** [.NET Core] Fixed an issue where incorrect platform DLLs could be loaded (for example, loading the `unix` reference library on Windows).

* **BUG:** [.NET Core] Fixed an issue where native libraries might not get loaded.


### Assertion Library

* `Assert.Empty` will now include the collection in the error message when the assert fails.

* Added support for `IComparable<>` in `Assert.Equal`.

* Improved compatibility with `IEquatable<>` and `Assert.Equal`.

### Console Runner

* **BREAKING CHANGE:** The `xunit.runner.console` NuGet package has been changed; notably, the path to the `net452` executables has moved from `tools\` to `tools\net452\`. You will need to update any paths which previously hard-coded this path.

* When importing the `xunit.runner.console` NuGet package, you now have access to two properties which point to the on-disk location of the console runner executable: `XunitConsolePath` points to `xunit.console.exe`, and `XunitConsolePathX86` points to `xunit.console.x86.exe`.

* The console runner will now ensure the directory for results files (XML, HTML, etc.) exists.

* Added a new `-stoponfail` switch to stop running tests after the first test failure.

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where the `xunit.runner.console` NuGet package caused MSBuild errors after being installed.

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where bright colors would not show up on Linux or OS X consoles that reported only 8-color support. This would cause some text to become illegible.

### MSBuild Runner

* **BREAKING CHANGE:** The `xunit.runner.msbuild` NuGet package has been changed; notably, the names of the MSBuild runner DLLs now include the target platform. This means if you had a hard-coded path to `xunit.runner.msbuild.dll`, this will need to be replaced with `xunit.runner.msbuild.net452.dll`.

* Added an `XunitTest` target when imported `xunit.runner.msbuild` which will run the the current assembly. This allows you to run `msbuild /t:XunitTest` against your unit test projects without modifying the project file. Note: you can override several options by defining `<PropertyGroup>` items. For a complete list of supported property names, see: [xunit.runner.msbuild.targets](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/blob/9712244020d385955d33136b3fe3e87de43539cd/src/xunit.runner.msbuild/build/xunit.runner.msbuild.targets#L6-L26).

* Added a new `StopOnFail` attribute to stop running tests after the first test failure.

### Extensibility

* Added a `netcoreapp1.0` version of `xunit.runner.utility` and `xunit.runner.reporters`.

* Started the process of separating user diagnostic messages from internal diagnostic messages. Runners have new options (as do configuration files) for enabling one vs. the other. This should make debugging extensibility projects simpler. This work is ongoing, so if you see internal diagnostic messages showing up without the switch, please feel free to [file an issue](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues).

* `XunitTestCaseRunner` has several new override methods that make it easier to extend specific parts of the pipeline (creating tests, the test runner, and supplementing the before/after attributes for a test).

* `XunitTestFrameworkDiscoverer` has exposed the mapping between `Fact`-derived attributes and the discoverer that is used to find them, allowing the user easier access to the cache (as well as allowing them to pre-seed the cache).

* Added `sbyte` and `Nullable<sbyte>` as serializable types.

* `MemberDataAttributeBase` can support data that is expressed as the non-generic `IEnumerable`, in addition to the generic `IEnumerable<T>`.

