---
title: Core Framework v2 2.3.1
title-date: 2017 October 27
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping two new releases:

* **xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.3.1`**
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter 2.3.1

It's been 3 weeks since the release of [`2.3.0`](2.3.0).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `2.3.0` to `2.3.1`.

### Core Framework

* Removed external dependencies. This primarily caused issues with developers who wanted to use a newer version of JSON.NET than we were linked against (9.0.1), but also affected uses of `Microsoft.DotNet.InternalAbstractions` and `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel`.

### Console Runner

* When exiting with Ctrl+C, the standard Windows exit code (`0xC000013A`, or `-1073741510`) is now correctly used.

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where the XML results file was being over-written without erasing the old contents, the end result of which could be corrupted XML files.

### MSBuild Runner

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where MSBuild runner reporters were not working. This was most obviously affecting TeamCity and AppVeyor users who lost their test reporting.

* **BUG:** The XML results output file was being left open longer than intended. Now it should be closed by the time the `<xunit>` task has completed.

* **BUG:** All reports other than XML v2 (for example, HTML and NUnit) were failing to output correctly, instead causing a null reference exception.

### Runner Reporters

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with the JSON reporter which caused floating point numbers to use the current computer's locale to format numbers, instead of the invariant locale. This caused invalid JSON to be generated on systems which use non-period decimal separators.
