---
title: Core Framework v2 2.4.1
title-version: 2018 October 28
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new releases:

* **xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.4.1`**
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter 2.4.1

It's been 3 months since the release of [`2.4.0`](/releases/v2/2.4.0).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `2.4.0` to `2.4.1`.

### Core Framework

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with `xunit.abstractions` not correctly installing with older versions of Visual Studio (pre-2017).

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with `ByRef` types with .NET Core 2.1.

* **BUG:** Removed an unnecessary first chance exception related to attempting to load configuration files.

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where synchronous and asynchronous disposal of test classes were running in parallel. The documented behavior is that asynchronous disposal (via `IAsyncLifetime`) runs to completion before synchronous disposal (via `IDisposable`).

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue caused in 2.4 by introducing new `netstandard2.0` libraries. Developers who were using desktop CLR versions older than 4.7.2 could encounter assembly loading issues. We rolled this change back, which should resolve the issue for those users. For more information on this problems caused by the original change, [this Github issue](https://github.com/dotnet/standard/issues/481).

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where generic test methods weren't correctly resolved when passing a `Func<T>`.

### Console Runner

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where `-nocolor` was not honored (when trying to get any reports other than XML v2 from the .NET Core 1.x runner).

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with XML element order with the NUnit report.

### MSBuild Runner

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with XML element order with the NUnit report.
