---
title: Core Framework v2 2.4.2
title-version: 2022 August 1
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new releases:

* **xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.4.2`**
* xUnit.net Analyzers 1.0.0 ([release notes](/releases/analyzers/1.0.0))

It's been nearly 4 years since the release of [`2.4.1`](/releases/v2/2.4.1). This release includes a few targeted bug fixes for the core framework, and an updated assertion library with many of the new v3 assertions being back-ported to v2. This new assertion library includes several new assertions and overloads of existing assertions, improvements to output for failing tests, and nullable annotations.

This is also the long-overdue 1.0.0 release of the analyzers!

We did not intend to ship any more v2 releases; that said, we also did not intend for the v3 development process to take as long as it has. We felt it was necessary to address a couple specific high-friction issues (including two from the .NET Team at Microsoft); the new assertions are merely an extra reason to encourage the upgrade (and help tide teams over who might be waiting for v3 with some of the new features).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You will notice that we have not changed any of the minimum requirements for this release, despite the fact that .NET 4.5.2 and .NET Core 1.0 are quite old at this point. We did not want to disrupt the workflow of those who may still be stuck on older (even out of support) versions of .NET Framework or .NET Core.
>
> **You should not consider this an endorsement that you use these older versions of .NET Framework or .NET Core; this was merely about making as few changes as possible to minimize compatibility issues, especially with third party extensibility libraries and test runners. Please upgrade to supported versions as soon as possible, as some of them are not even receiving security patches at this point in time.**
>
> This need to stick to the older target frameworks is the reason we are unable to ship the new assertions based on `Span`, `Memory` and `ValueTask`. If you wish you be able to consume these, they are part of the source package `xunit.assert.source`, which you could use (instead of `xunit.assert`), and then define the appropriate constants in the project (using [`<DefineConstants>`](https://docs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/msbuild/common-msbuild-project-properties) in your project file) to enable more advanced features. For more information on the constants and available features, please see the [Assertion library](https://github.com/xunit/assert.xunit#annotations) home page README.

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `2.4.1` to `2.4.2`.

### Core framework

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where placing `Skip` on an `[InlineData]` attribute was being ignored by Visual Studio Test Explorer. [xunit/visualstudio.xunit#266](https://github.com/xunit/visualstudio.xunit/issues/266){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where `decimal` values weren't usable in generic theories because the type coercion logic was not accounting for the possibility of multiple type-compatible `op_Implicit` or `op_Explicit` methods. [xunit/xunit#2418](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2418){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where type inference for generic test methods was not done correctly when one of the test data values was `null` (it would incorrectly use `object` to close all the generic types rather than continuing to inspect the subsequent non-`null` values for their correct types). [xunit/xunit#2401](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2401){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed a bug in `DisposalTracker` which was a race condition that could cause objects to fail to get disposed and/or cause objects to get disposed twice. [xunit/xunit#1855](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1855){ .issue-link }

### Assertion library

#### New assertions

* Added `Assert.Distinct` to verify that a collection does not contain any duplicate values. [xunit/assert.xunit#35](https://github.com/xunit/assert.xunit/pull/35){ .issue-link }

* Added `Assert.Equivalent` to check for object equivalence. Object equivalence is intended to be a looser kind of assertion than `Assert.Equal`. This assertion allows an optional `strict` flag to influence its behavior. The rules for equivalence are as follows:

  * `null` values are only ever equivalent to other `null` values (regardless of `strict`).
  * For value types and strings, equivalence and equality are the same (regardless of `strict`). In particular, this means that types must match exactly (for example, `int` and `long` values are never equivalent, even if they have the same underlying value; or, in code form: `Assert.Equivalent(12, 12L);` will fail).
  * For collections, the items in the two collections are compared for equivalence <em>regardless of their order in the collection</em> (meaning `[1, 2]` is equivalent to `[2, 1]`) and _regardless of the collection type_ (for example, `List<int>` can be compared against `int[]`). The `strict` parameter influences this comparison by requiring that all values in the `expected` list are in the `actual` list (meaning `expected: [1, 2]` is equivalent to `actual: [2, 3, 1]` when `strict` is `false`, but _not equivalent_ when `strict` is `true`). Another way to think of this is that `strict: false` allows `actual` to be a <em>strict superset</em> of `expected`, whereas `strict: true` does not.
  * Reference types which point to the same instance are always equivalent (regardless of `strict`). Circular references are not allowed, and will be surfaced as test failures. For all other reference types, the public non-static fields and readable properties are compared for equivalence <em>without regard to the types of the two values</em> and _without regard to which values came from fields vs. properties_. Like collections, the `strict` flag indicates whether `actual` is allowed to be a strict superset of `expected` (`strict: false`) or an exact match (`strict: true`). Reference types inspected in this way determine the equivalence of individual field/property values by using these same sets of rules when comparing the field/property values. This includes reference type values (meaning the reference type equivalence is considered to be "deep", not "shallow").
  * `KeyValuePair<,>` is handled specially: the keys are checked for equivalence against each other, as are the values; this allows embedded collections inside of keys and/or values inside a KeyValuePair.

  It's somewhat challenging to describe these rules in plain English, so please see the comprehensive test suite linked below for codified versions of all these rules. [xunit/xunit#1604](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1604){ .issue-link } [Assert.Equivalent test suite](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/blob/f110e5bee5dfd4c08339587c9c3df9292fcb597c/test/test.xunit.assert/Asserts/EquivalenceAssertsTests.cs){ .issue-link }

* Added `Assert.Fail` which unilaterally fails the test with the given message. [xunit/xunit#2105](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2105){ .issue-link }

* Added `Assert.Multiple` which allows the developer to run several independent assertions (expressed as `Action`s) and then collect up all the failures into a single failure. This behavior differs from the default behavior (which stops running assertions upon the first failure). [xunit/xunit#1920](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1920){ .issue-link }

#### New overloads

* Added an overload of `Assert.All` which takes an `Action<T, int>` so the inspecting action get access to both the value and its index in the collection. [xunit/xunit#2082](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2082){ .issue-link }

* Add overload of `Assert.Equal` for doubles which includes a `MidpointRounding` flag. [xunit/xunit#2074](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2074){ .issue-link }

* Add overload of `Assert.Equal` for floats and doubles that allows specifying a tolerance (rather than a precision). [xunit/xunit#1293](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1293){ .issue-link } [xunit/xunit#1984](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1984){ .issue-link }

#### Message improvement

* Improved the output of `Assert.Collection` with a pointer-style message (like string assertions) that make it easier to identify the failing part of the collection. [xunit/xunit#994](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/994){ .issue-link } [xunit/xunit#1924](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1924){ .issue-link }

* Improved the output of `Assert.Empty` to match other expected/actual exceptions. [xunit/xunit#1806](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1806){ .issue-link }

* Improved the output of `Assert.Single` to improve the output message when being used with a "match" expression (it used to say the collection was empty, but now correctly mentions the fact that you were matching specific values). [xunit/assert.xunit#28](https://github.com/xunit/assert.xunit/pull/28){ .issue-link }

* Improved the output from exceptions which show expected and actual values which are multi-line values, so that the lines are properly indented. [xunit/xunit commit 8b67420](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/commit/8b67420306018ca37f6cd91a65a559a381964829){ .issue-link }

#### Bugs fixed

* Updated the white space list `Assert.Equal` for strings with `ignoreWhiteSpace: true`. [xunit/xunit#1931](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1931){ .issue-link }

* There are times during `Assert.Equal` with collections that can iterate multiple times (which is generally considered bad form with `IEnumerable`). The most egregious case of this was fixed, though there is still at least one more possibility during test failure to end up enumerating a second time. [xunit/xunit#2402](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2402){ .issue-link }

#### Other improvements

* All appropriate assertions have been annotated for nullability:

  * `Assert.NotNull` tells the compiler that the `object` parameter will not `null` if the function doesn't throw. `Assert.Null` similarly tells the compiler that the `object` parameter may be `null` if the function doesn't throw.
  * `Assert.Contains` and `Assert.DoesNotContain` for dictionaries requires the dictionary key type to be non-nullable.
  * `Assert.Single` against non-generic `IEnumerable` indicates the return value may be `null`.
  * Many assertion parameters were updated to indicate when `null` parameter values are acceptable and when they aren't, as well as updating return signatures to indicate when returned values may or may not be `null`.
  * A few assertions (`True`, `False`, and `Fail`) are marked as never returning (aka, throwing) based on the input data.

* Marked `XunitException`'s constructors which take inner exceptions as `public`. [xunit/assert.xunit#33](https://github.com/xunit/assert.xunit/pull/33){ .issue-link }

* The event assertions (`Assert.Raises`, `Assert.RaisesAny`, and `Assert.RaisesAsync`) no longer express type requirements for `EventArgs`.

### Runner Utility (and all runners)

* **BUG:** Updated the output when running tests inside TeamCity to improve the way TeamCity parsed test output (missing its flow ID and a flag to indicate the text was parsable). [xunit/xunit#2397](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2397){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed in issue with incorrect lock order when coloring console output. [xunit/xunit#2228](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/pull/2228){ .issue-link }

## A note about `xunit.runner.visualstudio`

The `xunit.runner.visualstudio` package has a separate lifecycle and separate minimum framework requirements from xUnit.net Core Framework. Use this table to determine which version you should use (pick the _lowest version_ of the combination of target frameworks you're using):

|                    | 2.4.1      | 2.4.3      | 2.4.5
| ------------------ | ---------- | ---------- |
| **.NET Framework** | 4.5.2      | 4.5.2      | 4.6.2
| **.NET Core**      | 1.0        | 2.1        | 3.1
| **UWP**            | 10.0.10240 | 10.0.16299 | 10.0.16299

Visual Studio does not allow mixed versions of this package in your solution, so do not mix versions; doing so may cause problems running your projects that need the older version of the runner package. Choose the lowest version of the package that applies to _all_ of the test projects in your solution.
