---
title: Core Framework v2 2.5.1
title-version: 2024 September 17
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new releases:

* **xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.5.1`**
* xUnit.net Analyzers 1.3.0 ([release notes](/releases/analyzers/1.3.0))
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter 2.5.1 ([release notes](/releases/visualstudio/2.5.1))

It's been 2 months since the release of [`2.5.0`](/releases/v2/2.5.0).

The introduction of the new assertion library in 2.5.0 (along with issues associated with the new package signing system used by .NET Foundation) necessitated this fairly quick point release. Most of what's been done for 2.5.1 is cleaning up issues discovered as people moved from 2.4.x to 2.5.0, some of which ended being showstopping issues. Hopefully we have resolved them all. 🤞

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Users reported sporadic problems restoring the version 2.5.0 NuGet packages. As noted above, this is a result of .NET Foundation's code signing system changing the default time stamp server from DigiCert to Microsoft, which is not supported on .NET SDK 6.0.3xx (which is associated with Visual Studio 2022 LTS release 17.2). Users who were trying to stick with purely LTS builds of tools experienced [NU3003](https://learn.microsoft.com/nuget/reference/errors-and-warnings/nu3003) ("The package signature is invalid or cannot be verified on this platform."). We have since reverted back to the DigiCert time stamp service, which will allow users relying on LTS tooling to be able to restore our packages again.

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `2.5.0` to `2.5.1`.

### Core Framework

* Using `[MemberData]` against a method with optional parameters (where you don't specify the values) is not supported in v2. We have added a message alerting you to this, where previously we would just fail to find a matching method. [xunit/xunit#1985](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1985){ .issue-link }

* We have made `SerializationHelper` public. This class can be used to perform the serialization that we normally use in `xunit.runner.visualstudio`. This code is shared on both sides of the system, so it's available as `Xunit.SerializationHelper` in `xunit.runner.utility.*` for runner authors, and `Xunit.Sdk.SerializationHelper` in `xunit.execution.*` for extensibility authors. Note that the code is slightly different in that the execution version supports assemblies marked with `PlatformSpecificAssemblyAttribute` to transform their assembly names in types to include the `{Platform}` tag as appropriate. (This is behavior that only applies to the execution side, and only for v2 tests.) This class can serialize any type that is supported by xUnit.net's built-in serialization, which includes:

  * `char`
  * `string`
  * `byte` and `sbyte`
  * `short` and `ushort`
  * `int` and `uint`
  * `long` and `ulong`
  * `float` and `double`
  * `decimal`
  * `bool`
  * `DateTime`, `DateTimeOffset`, and `TimeSpan`
  * `BigInteger` (.NET Core only)
  * `Type`
  * Enums (not in the GAC)
  * Types which implement `IXunitSerializable`
  * Arrays which contain values of supported types

  [xunit/xunit#2770](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2770){ .issue-link }

### Assertion Library

* The `BitArray` class has been marked as "safe to re-enumerate", so when it is printed in error messages and/or theory data, it will show the bit values (as an array of `True` and `False`) rather than the placeholder `[···]`.

* Added an overload of `Assert.RaisesAny` and `Assert.RaisesAnyAsync` to support event handlers which return raw `EventArgs`. This overload is non-generic (the generic overloads are still used to obtain specific event data types). The need for this overload comes from the fact that the delegate types for `EventHandler` and `EventHandler<T>` are not compatible, so a non-generic version was required. These are the `Any` variants because they support events which return `EventArgs` or any type that is derived from it; if you want strong typing, you should follow up the `Assert.RaisesAny` or `Assert.RaisesAnyAsync` with an assertion like `Assert.IsType` for the specific type you want to verify. [xunit/xunit#2773](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2773){ .issue-link }

* Updated the `xunit.assert.source` NuGet package to include a `.editorconfig` file that marks all files in the package as "auto-generated" so that they will be skipped for source analysis. Previously, they would end up running against the analyzer rules for the importing project, and frequently run afoul of things like not matching the desired coding style and formatting rules.

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where proper nullable annotations were accidentally left off of the new `Assert.NotNull<T>()` overload designed for nullable value types. [xunit/xunit#2750](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2750){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed a regression in `Assert.Equal` with dictionaries where the `TValue` was a collection class (like an array or `List<T>`). [xunit/xunit#2755](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2755){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with `Assert.Equal` with `HashSet` values, where the internal comparer (passed during construction of the `HashSet`) and/or the external comparer (passed to `Assert.Equal`) was not being used, causing false positives or negatives. Part of the implementation of this fix also resolves a potential issue (never reported) with internal type `AssertEqualityComparerAdapter` and an implementation of `GetHashCode` that was throwing; it now correctly delegates to the instance of `IEqualityComparer<T>` that it is wrapping. [xunit/xunit#2743](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2743){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with `Assert.Equivalent` with some tuple values where the comparison was failing, even when the values should've been equivalent. This involved rewriting some sketchy logic related to `IComparable` which had previously been added just to support `DateTime` and `DateTimeOffset`; now, instead, we explicitly handle those two types and never try to use `IComparable`. This is more in line with the originally intended purpose of `Assert.Equivalent`, but it may now surface as unexpected false negatives if any developers were relying on us calling their `IComparable` implementation. The new logic is the correct intention, and developers should not assume that we will use `IComparable` (or any other similar interface) for `Assert.Equivalent`. Note that this _does not affect_ our implementation of `Assert.Equal`, which still consults several equality-testing interfaces. [xunit/xunit#2758](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2758){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with improper disposal of enumerators by `CollectionTracker`. The collection tracker was attempting to use its enumerator after it had been disposed, which manifested in this particular case as a stray `NullReferenceException` with `Assert.Single` using a string of 5 characters of fewer, but in reality caused unexpected behavior depending on the specific enumerator implementation. This could impact any assertion that inspected a collection. [xunit/xunit#2762](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2762){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where `FileInfo` and `DirectoryInfo` were causing a stack overflow in `Assert.Equivalent`, because they create an endless loop of objects in their hierarchy (through the `Root` property of `DirectoryInfo`). There were two fixes added:

  1. We now set a maximum object traversal depth of 50, which is a number much higher than we assume anybody would be realistically testing against. If you exceed this, it throws an exception which tells you the path it followed to get to level 50, and suggests that you might have an infinite loop in your object hierarchy. This should prevent us from crashing with a stack overflow if there are any future situations like this (whether they come from built-in types or your own custom classes).

  1. We special cased `FileSystemInfo`, the base class for `FileInfo` and `DirectoryInfo`. When two of these are compared against each other, they only compare the value of the `FullName` property. Analysis shows that every other property is in some way derived from the item on disk (whether it's a file or a directory), so comparing the full names should be a good test of equivalency.

  It's important to note that these fixes only apply to `Assert.Equivalent`. If you try to compare two instances of these classes with `Assert.Equal`, they will show up as not equal, because they are reference types which don't implement any of the equality interfaces in .NET that you would normally expect/need when comparing equality. [xunit/xunit#2767](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2767){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with `Assert.Equivalent` when comparing two values which derive from `FileSystemInfo` but weren't the same concrete type. This comparison now just outright fails for mismatched types.

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with `AssertHelper` when imported via `xunit.assert.source` with .NET Standard 1.2 - 1.6 (complaining about the unavailability of the `AppDomain` type).

### Extensibility

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue where the factory methods in the assert library's exception classes were not all properly marked as public as intended. [xunit/xunit#2741](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2741){ .issue-link }
