---
title: Core Framework v2 2.7.0
title-version: 2024 February 15
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new releases:

* **xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.7.0`**
* xUnit.net Analyzers 1.11.0 ([release notes](/releases/analyzers/1.11.0))
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter 2.5.7 ([release notes](/releases/visualstudio/2.5.7))

It's been 1 month since the release of [`2.6.6`](2.6.6).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `2.6.6` to `2.7.0`.

### Core Framework

* We have fixed a binary breaking change to `SynchronousMessageBus` caused by a constructor change. The old constructor has been restored and marked as `[Obsolete]`.

### Runner Utility

* We have added a `ConfigWarnings` property to `XunitProjectAssembly` which will contain warnings related to unsupported configuration file types, files which cannot be found/loaded, JSON config files which are malformed, or any time an exception is thrown while loading/parsing configuration. It is the responsibility of the runner to find an appropriate place to report these warnings. We have updated all the first party runners (`xunit.runner.console`, `xunit.runner.msbuild`, `xunit.runner.tdnet`, and `xunit.runner.visualstudio`) to report these. [xunit/xunit#1655](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1655){ .issue-link }

* We will only use our `AsyncTestSyncContext` for tests marked as `async void`. This may provide a slight performance improvement for some users. [xunit/xunit#2573](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2573){ .issue-link }

* We will now fail any test which is marked with `[Fact(Timeout = n)]` if the test is not async. Previously this resulted in behavior where the timeout was ignored.

### Assertion Library

* We have added support for `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` in the following assertions:

  * `Assert.All`
  * `Assert.AllAsync`
  * `Assert.Collection`
  * `Assert.CollectionAsync`
  * `Assert.Contains`
  * `Assert.Distinct`
  * `Assert.DoesNotContain`
  * `Assert.Empty`
  * `Assert.Equal`
  * `Assert.NotEqual`
  * `Assert.Single`

  For developers taking a binary NuGet dependency (the typical way), you must be using .NET 6 or later to get these new overloads. If you are importing our assertions via source (either as NuGet or via Git submodule), you must be using .NET Core 3.0 or later. In addition, developers importing via source can also take advantage of `AssertHelper.ToEnumerable()` to convert an async enumerable into a standard enumerable.

* We have updated `Assert.Contains` and `Assert.DoesNotContain` to extend our special handling of sets from just the concrete `HashSet<T>` to any class which implements `ISet<T>`. We also extend this support to any class which implements `IReadOnlySet<T>`, if you are using .NET 6 or later (via binary NuGet dependency) or .NET 5 or later (via source dependency).

* We have updated the XML documentation around the assertions that take `Span<char>` and `ReadOnlySpan<char>` to indicate that these assertion treat the spans like strings rather than like collections of characters. While this has always been true, the documentation did not make that clear previously. We have also updated the documentation for the overloads that can ignore white-space to include a complete list of the characters that we consider white-space (there are 21 separate characters that we consider white-space at the time of this release).

* We have updated reporting in `Assert.Equal` and `Assert.NotEqual`, when showing type names, if the type is a compiler generated type we simply now display `<generated>` rather than the mangled auto-generated type name.

* **BUG:** We have fixed an issue with `Assert.Collection` where the inner stack trace was no longer being displayed, making it difficult to know which precise line of code caused the comparison failure. [xunit/xunit#2871](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2871){ .issue-link }
