---
title: Core Framework v2 2.7.1
title-version: 2024 April 11
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new releases:

  * **xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.7.1`**
  * xUnit.net Analyzers 1.12.0 ([release notes](/releases/analyzers/1.12.0))
  * xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter 2.5.8 ([release notes](/releases/visualstudio/2.5.8))

It's been 2 months since the release of [`2.7.0`](2.7.0).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `2.7.0` to `2.7.1`.

### Core Framework

* We have added support for .NET diagnostic events to be reported for the start and finish of individual tests. The event source name is `xUnit.TestEventSource`, and the provider GUID is `ae399e80-45fc-4219-aacc-b73a458ad7e1`. Please note that if you are trying to use [Concurrency Visualizer](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/profiling/concurrency-visualizer) that sometimes the start & stop events will not be correctly correlated for async tests, as they may begin and end on different threads. This is unfortunately a limitation of Concurrency Visualizer, though the events should always be present (but not correlated, so marked as diamonds). Please see the linked issue for extensive discussion on this. [xunit/xunit#2884](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2884){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We fixed an issue with the timeout async guard (that is, the code that ensures that you must write an async test to use `Timeout` on `[Fact]` or `[Theory]`) which was inappropriately triggering for F# projects using the `task` keyword to define the async body of the test. [xunit/xunit#2892](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2892){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We fixed an edge case `SystemAccessViolation` that could occur as we were inspecting thrown exceptions, and their properties (like `StackTrace` or `Message`) were in turn throwing. While this violates the contract of the `Exception` class, the edge case was seemingly caused by something that was corrupting the exception. Catching and ignoring these exceptions will at least all affected projects to continue to run, albeit with missing information in the exceptions. [xunit/xunit#2503](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2503){ .issue-link }

### Runner Utility

* **BUG:** We fixed an unintentional binary backward compatibility breaking bug with `ConfigReader` where we added an optional parameter to the `Load` functions. The old signature has been restored but marked as obsolete and hidden from Intellisense. [xunit/xunit#2896](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2896){ .issue-link }

### Assertion Library

* We have updated `Assert.Equal` overloads for `Memory<char>`, `ReadOnlyMemory<char>`, `Span<char>`, and `ReadOnlySpan<char>` to more clearly indicate that the values are treated as strings and not individual characters. This is primarily a documentation issue in the API documentation (via XML doc comments), as they have always been treated this way.

* We have added an additional overload for `Assert.Raises` which accepts `Action` for attach and detach arguments, in addition to the existing `Action<EventHandler>` and `Action<EventHandler<T>>` signatures. [xunit/xunit#2888](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2888){ .issue-link }

* We have added additional overloads for `Assert.Raises`, `Assert.RaisesAny`, `Assert.RaisesAnyAsync`, and `Assert.RaisesAsync` which accepts `Action<Action>` and `Action<Action<T>>` for attach and detach arguments, to support event handlers which are defined as `Action` or `Action<T>` rather than `EventHandler` or `EventHandler<T>`. [xunit/xunit#2900](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2900){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We fixed an issue for users of the `xunit.assert.source` NuGet package that caused compilation errors when also referencing `xunit.core` from duplicate code. [xunit/xunit#2889](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2889){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We fixed an issue with `Assert.Equivalent` not correctly comparing `decimal` values. It was always reporting two decimals values as equivalent regardless of their actual value. [xunit/xunit#2913](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2913){ .issue-link }
