---
title: Core Framework v3 3.1.0
title-version: 2025 September 27
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping two new releases:

* **xUnit.net Core Framework v3 `3.1.0`**
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter `3.1.5` ([release notes](/releases/visualstudio/3.1.5))

It's been 6 weeks since the release of [`3.0.1`](/releases/v3/3.0.1).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a list of changes from `3.0.1` to `3.1.0`.

### Core Framework

* We have added a new `XunitSerializer<T>` class which can be used as a base class when implementing `IXunitSerializer` for one type. This adds type safety to the APIs (giving instances of `T` to `Serialize` and `IsSerializable`, and expecting an instance of `T` from `Deserialize`), as well as providing some boilerplate logic to ensure this type safety at runtime. This also includes automatic support for arrays of values, meaning that `IsSerializable` will be called repeatedly with the instances of values in the array rather than being called just once with the array itself (as is the case with `IXunitSerializer.IsSerializable`).

* We have enhanced the support for event source events produced by xUnit.net. In addition to `TestStart` and `TestStop` events, we have also added `TestAssemblyStart`, `TestAssemblyStop`, `TestCollectionStart`, `TestCollectionStop`, `TestClassStart`, `TestClassStop`, `TestMethodStart`, `TestMethodStop`, `TestCaseStart`, and `TestCaseStop`. We have also added a new `result` value to `TestStop` to indicate what the final test result was. [xunit/xunit#3386](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3386){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We have fixed an issue in `ConsoleRunnerInProcess` (which is primarily used by NCrunch) where we were causing an extra unnecessary discovery phase when trying to run individual tests. This should improve individual test execution performance.

* **BUG:** We have fixed an issue where we could mistakenly try to create fixture instances when we know ahead of time that all tests using those fixture instances would be skipped. [xunit/xunit#3371](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3371){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We have fixed an issue where anonymously-typed tuples with more than 8 values were not being properly serialized. [xunit/xunit#3401](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3401){: .issue-link }

### Assertion Library

* **BUG:** We have fixed an issue with `Assert.EquivalentWithExclusions` with the way that collections are handled. The expression for collections must now include `[]` at the end of a collection property/field name. For example, the expression `MyCollection[].MyProperty` will exclude `MyProperty` when comparing values inside the `MyCollection` collection. For more information, see the attached issue. [xunit/xunit#3394](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3394){: .issue-link }

### Runners

* We have updated the Azure DevOps runner reporter to use the latest versions of the APIs. [xunit/xunit#3376](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3376){: .issue-link }

* We have updated the default runner reporter to report the test assembly's unique ID in the "Finished" message displayed on-screen, rather than in the summary, due to the fact that some runners (like `dotnet test`) did not display the summary. [xunit/xunit#3365](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3365){: .issue-link }

* We have updated the `-list full` output from the in-process console runner to include the test case unique ID of each discovered test (this is available in both human-readable form as well as JSON form via `-list full/json`). We have also added a `-id` switch that allows the user to run a test case by unique ID. This complements the existing MTP command line switch (`--filter-uid`) which also allows running a test case by unique ID. [xunit/xunit#3179](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3179){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We have fixed an issue where `IRunnerReporterMessageHandler.DisposeAsync` was not being called. [xunit/xunit#3385](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3385){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We have fixed the output of the JUnit report to conform to the JUnit 4 XSD. This changed the skip counter attribute name in `testsuites` from `skipped` to `disabled`, and removes the attachment, traits, and warning nodes that were previously (illegally) reported under the `testsuite`. [xunit/xunit#3393](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3393){: .issue-link }

### Runner Utility

* We have added `XunitProjectAssembly.TestCaseIDsToRun`, which allows runner authors to specify test cases they wish to run by ID. This supplements the existing `XunitProjectAssembly.TestCasesToRun`, which allows runner authors to specify test cases they wish to run by providing the serialized test case. This is used by the new `-id` console runner switch mentioned above. [xunit/xunit#3179](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3179){: .issue-link }

### Templates

* The templates in `xunit.v3.templates` now allow you to target .NET 10 (by using `-f net10.0` with `dotnet new`). The default target frameworks are unchanged for now (`net8.0` for `xunit3`, and `netstandard2.0` for `xunit3-extension`).

### Microsoft Testing Platform

* We will only pre-enumerate theory data rows by default when running in Test Explorer now. Previously we would pre-enumerate theory data rows by default when running in `dotnet test`, but we are skipping this now by default (as a performance optimization). You can as always [force pre-enumeration through configuration](/docs/config-xunit-runner-json#preEnumerateTheories).

* We have upgraded to version 1.8.4.
