---
title: Core Framework v3 3.2.1
title-version: 2025 November 28
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping two new releases:

* **xUnit.net Core Framework v3 `3.2.1`**
* xUnit.net Analyzers `1.26.0` ([release notes](/releases/analyzers/1.26.0))

It's been 4 weeks since the release of [`3.2.0`](/releases/v3/3.2.0).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a list of changes from `3.2.0` to `3.2.1`.

### Core Framework

* **BUG:** We fixed an issue where unhandled exceptions on background threads could cause the test process to terminate abruptly, which could cause third party runners (like VSTest) to loop forever waiting for the crashed test process. [xunit/xunit#3447](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3447){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We fixed an issue where worker threads that tests created which were marked as foreground threads could prevent the test process from terminating. Now, during shutdown, we will wait approximately 10 seconds for any outstanding foreground threads to finish their work before forcefully shutting down the test process. Ideally, test authors should always mark their worker threads a background threads to prevent this problem (and/or ensure that any threads complete work before the required test(s) complete).

  _Note that whether this is considered a failure by the test runner depends on the runner, because in order to propagate this failure to some runners, we will need to make breaking changes to the framework. These changes should come in a later major version update._ [xunit/xunit#3452](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3452){: .issue-link }

### Assertion Library

* We have updated the output from `Assert.Equal` with strings to attempt to align the output so that the mismatch positions will be vertically aligned.

  For example, given the following assertion:

  ```csharp
  Assert.Equal(
      "012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789",
      "01234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789"
  );
  ```

  The old output would be:

  ```shell
  Assert.Equal() Failure: Strings differ
                                                        ↓ (pos 50)
  Expected: ···"01234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789"
  Actual:   "01234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789"
  ```

  And the new output is:

  ```shell
  Assert.Equal() Failure: Strings differ
                                                        ↓ (pos 50)
  Expected: ···"01234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789"
  Actual:   ···"0123456789012345678901234567890123456789"
  ```

  If you identify other scenarios where you believe we could do better alignment of strings in this output (or this change breaks a previously useful comparison output), please feel free to open an issue for us to validate and fix. [xunit/xunit#3445](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3445){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We have fixed a potential exception when inspecting `Exception.Message`. While the contract for `Exception.Message` says it must return a non-null `string` value, there are exception implementations in the wild that violate this contract, and it was causing `NullReferenceException` to be thrown in some situations. [xunit/xunit#3448](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3448){: .issue-link }

### Runners

* **BUG:** We fixed an issue with the TRX report wherein an incorrect value was being generated in the XML. [xunit/xunit#3442](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3442){: .issue-link }
