---
title: Core Framework v3 4.0.0-pre.108
title-version: 2026 May 2
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping two new prereleases:

* **xUnit.net Core Framework v3 `4.0.0-pre.108`**
* xUnit.net Analyzers `2.0.0-pre.51` ([release notes](/releases/analyzers/2.0.0-pre.51))

This is the third prerelease build for the 4.0 release. This is anticipated to be the final prerelease of this cycle, so please focus testing efforts to find any remaining issues before we ship an RTW.

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

> [!NOTE]
> With 4.0, we are discontinuing official support for Microsoft Testing Platform v1. The default version of Microsoft Testing Platform support now is v2 (currently at version 2.2.1), and we will continue to offer packages to turn off Microsoft Testing Platform support as well.

> [!NOTE]
> With 4.0, we are discontinuing official support for Mono. While we anticipate that it will _usually_ continue to work, we have noticed occasional Mono-related issues in our own CI process. Given that Mono is now abandoned, we don't anticipate being able to get any support for resolving them. Any requests for xUnit.net support for Mono-related issues will be declined. We may accept bug fixes based on their severity and the impact to the codebase.

## Release Notes

These release notes are a list of changes from `4.0.0-pre.81` to `4.0.0-pre.108`.

### Core Framework

* We have added support for fixtures to get notified of test execution pipeline events.

  Interface                                                                  | Usable by
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------
  `INotifyTestAssemblyLifecycle`<br/>`INotifyTestAssemblyLifecycleAsync`     | Assembly fixtures
  `INotifyTestCollectionLifecycle`<br/>`INotifyTestCollectionLifecycleAsync` | Assembly and collection fixtures
  `INotifyTestClassLifecycle`<br/>`INotifyTestClassLifecycleAsync`           | Assembly, collection, and class fixtures
  `INotifyTestMethodLifecycle`<br/>`INotifyTestMethodLifecycleAsync`         | Assembly, collection, and class fixtures
  `INotifyTestCaseLifecycle`<br/>`INotifyTestCaseLifecycleAsync`             | Assembly, collection, and class fixtures
  `INotifyTestLifecycle`<br/>`INotifyTestLifecycleAsync`                     | Assembly, collection, and class fixtures

  Any fixture class can implement one or more of these interfaces, and they will be called when the test execution pipeline is underway.

  An example of where this might be useful: A fixture would like to create and tear down a database at its normal lifecycle point (for example, a shared database as a collection fixture would create the database when the collection starts, and tear it down when the collection ends). I would also like to reset the data in the database before each test begins. The fixture itself is injectable into the test class via constructor so that the test can be access to the connection information for the test database.

  The test-level events are similar in timing today with what's possible via `[BeforeAfterTestAttribute]`, except that this also supports asynchronous operations (the attribute only supports synchronous). [xunit/xunit#3504](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3504){: .issue-link } [xunit/xunit#3528](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3528){: .issue-link }

* We have extended `ITypeActivator` to be used for fixture creation (in reflection mode). This should extend dependency injection-like capabilities to fixtures (in addition to test classes). [xunit/xunit#3567](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/discussions/3567){: .issue-link }

* We have added two new MSBuild properties:

  NuGet package                                                                  | $(XunitTestProject)      | $(XunitTestProjectAOT)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------ | ------------------------
  xunit.v3.core<br />xunit.v3.core.mtp-v2<br />xunit.v3.core.mtp-off             | true<br />true<br />true |
  xunit.v3.core.aot<br />xunit.v3.core.aot.mtp-v2<br />xunit.v3.core.aot.mtp-off | true<br />true<br />true | true<br />true<br />true

  The purpose of these properties is to provide developers with the ability to trigger behavior off knowing whether they're being used in the context of an xUnit.net test project, which can be useful when mixing multiple Microsoft Testing Platform enabled test frameworks.

  These MSBuild properties are only set by the above named packages to correlate with test projects (in particular, they are not set when referencing `xunit.v3.extensibility.core`, which correlates with extensibility projects). [microsoft/testfx#7773](https://github.com/microsoft/testfx/issues/7773){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** F# projects were not able to build in Microsoft Testing Platform UX command line mode due to incorrect spacing in the generated entrypoint source file. [xunit/xunit#3547](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3547){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** `TestContext.Current.CancellationToken` and `TestContext.Current.CancelCurrentTest()` were throwing when the test context had been disposed. Now, these operations either return a default `CancellationToken` or are ignored. [xunit/xunit#3554](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3554){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Debugger detection was moved from discovery time to execution time. This issue manifested as debugger-specific behavior not working when using VSTest inside Visual Studio's Test Explorer (for example, tests with timeouts would still run their timeouts, which is behavior that is normally disabled when running under a debugger). [xunit/visualstudio.xunit#450](https://github.com/xunit/visualstudio.xunit/issues/450){: .issue-link }

### Assertion Library

* We have added the ability to override the way assertion messages are formatted on a per-test basis. This includes:

  * `Assert.OverrideMaxEnumerableLength`<br />Changes the number of items to display in an enumerable/collection
  * `Assert.OverrideMaxObjectDepth`<br />Changes the depth to recurse into complex objects when printing them
  * `Assert.OverrideMaxObjectMemberCount`<br />Changes the number of members to show when printing a complex object
  * `Assert.OverrideMaxStringLength`<br />Changes the length of strings to print before truncation

  > [!NOTE]
  > `OverrideMaxObjectDepth` and `OverrideMaxObjectMemberCount` have no effect in Native AOT mode, since the assertion results do not print complex objects in Native AOT (due to reflection limitations).

  Setting these overrides uses `AsyncLocal` functionality, so the override only affects the current test in which the override is set. Attempting to override these values outside of a test method is not supported, and may have unanticipated consequences (may affect an unknown set of tests). [xunit/xunit#3526](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3526){: .issue-link }

### Native AOT

* **BUG:** The source generator was incorrectly trying to generate code to call `[Fact]` tests with parameters. It now correctly skips this. [xunit/xunit#3543](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3543){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** There was a compiler ambiguity with calls to `DataAttributeRegistration.CreateDataRow` for data attribute source generation. `[OverloadResolutionPriority]` was added to resolve this. [xunit/xunit#3546](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3546){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Numeric constants in `[InlineData]` could lose their type, causing casting failures at runtime when trying to run the theory. [xunit/xunit#3548](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3548){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Generated default values in `[InlineData]` were incorrectly cased (e.g., `False` instead of `false`) or typed (e.g., `c` instead of `'c'`), causing compiler failures. [xunit/xunit#3549](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3549){: .issue-link } [xunit/xunit#3550](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3550){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** The type registration for unbound generic types was incorrect, and has been updated. It was previously `global::Namespace.TypeName<T>`, and now is `global::Namespace.TypeName<>`. This affected data attributes (`[InlineData]`, `[MemberData]`, and `[ClassData]`) inside open generic abstract base test classes. [xunit/xunit#3556](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3556){: .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Assembly fixures were not being properly resolved in test classes, due to incorrectly generated registration source code. [xunit/xunit#3563](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3563){: .issue-link }

### Runner Common / Runner Utility

* We have updated the logic used to sanitize attachment filenames to always exclude all invalid characters from Windows, Linux, and macOS (rather than just the ones from the current OS). This better supports scenarios where attachment files are generated on one OS and then copied to another (e.g., in CI build scenarios). [xunit/xunit#3561](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/pull/3561){: .issue-link }

* We have added a settable `InProcessTestProcessLauncher.LoadContext` (of type `AssemblyLoadContext`) to be used when the in-process launcher loads the test assembly. This property is only available in .NET 8+ (and not in .NET Framework). [xunit/xunit#3559](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3559){: .issue-link }

### Microsoft Testing Platform

* The MTP v2 packages have been updated to Microsoft Testing Platform 2.2.2.

* We have added `--filter`, which accepts the older VSTest filter syntax. This should aid users who are porting from VSTest to Microsoft Testing Platform. [xunit/xunit#3466](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/pull/3466){: .issue-link }

* The output folder for attachments is now the results directory (which can be overridden with `--results-directory`). Previously these were being written into the temp folder. [xunit/xunit#3562](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3562){: .issue-link }

* We are setting MSBuild property `<IsTestingPlatformApplication>true</IsTestingPlatformApplication>` in anticipation of a potentially breaking change coming in Microsoft Testing Platform v3. [microsoft/testfx#7665](https://github.com/microsoft/testfx/issues/7665){: .issue-link }
