---
title: Analyzers 1.0.0
title-version: 2022 August 1
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

## Hello, 1.0.0!

Today we're shipping the first full release of the xUnit.net Analyzers package at `1.0.0`!

The first commit to the analyzers project happened almost exactly 6 years ago on August 31, 2016. [Marcin Dobosz](https://github.com/marcind) was working at CenturyLink Cloud with Jim & Brad. His goal was to help developers identify the most common issues found when writing tests with xUnit.net, using his coworkers as the guinea pigs. 😄

The first official release was `0.1.0`, which shipped the following May alongside the [xUnit.net 2.3 Beta 2](/releases/v2/2.3.0-beta2-build3682) release. This included 15 analyzers for test authors related to non-assertion usage by test authors (things like ensuring the correct number of parameters in `[InlineData()]` usage) and 5 analyzers for test authors related to assertion usage (things like ensuring that you are passing the `expected` and `actual` values in the correct order).

In the intervening time between that first release and today, there were ten more public releases in the `0.x` version system, usually aligned with beta or RTM releases of the core framework.

With today's official 1.0 release, we now offer 28 non-assertion analyzers and 19 assertion analyzers, plus an entirely new category: 2 analyzers designed for developers who are writing extensions to the core framework.

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `0.10.0` to `1.0.0`.

### General

* All analyzers were reviewed to ensure that the analyzer message contains not just "What was done wrong?" but also "How do I fix it?". This is in recognition that not all developers have access to editors that allow the user to run the fixers, and may only ever see the message via a command line build (like with `msbuild` or `dotnet build`) that doesn't surface the documentation links. For example, [xUnit1000](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1000)'s message used to read `"Test classes must be public"`, but now reads `"Test classes must be public. Add or change the visibility modifier of the test class to public."`.

### Usage Analyzers

* Fixed an issue with [xUnit1010](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1010) to allow generic arrays as theory parameters. [xunit/xunit#2075](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2075){ .issue-link }

* Fixed an issue with [xUnit1016](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1016) and [xUnit1019](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1019) which were triggering inadvertently when there were member data elements with overridden names (even though the public one was legal). [xunit/xunit#1968](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1968){ .issue-link }

* Updated [xUnit1020](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1020) to also ensure property getters are public.

* Fixed an issue with [xUnit1025](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1025) which was incorrectly triggering duplicates because empty arrays were being ignored. [xunit/xunit#1877](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1877){ .issue-link }

* Fixed an issue with [xUnit1026](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1026) which was firing inappropriately when a parameter was used as an `out` value. [xunit/xunit#1802](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1802){ .issue-link }

* Added [xUnit1027](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1027) to detect and fix when test collection classes aren't public. [xunit/xunit.analyzers#118](https://github.com/xunit/xunit.analyzers/pull/118){ .issue-link }

* Added [xUnit1033](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1033) to detect and fix test classes which are decorated with `IClassFixture` and/or `ICollectionFixture` but did not accept the fixture instance via the constructor. [xunit/xunit#2068](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2068){ .issue-link }

### Assertion Analyzers

* Fixed an issue with [xUnit2013](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2013) where it inappropriately suggests converting `Assert.Equal(0, arraySegment.Count)` into `Assert.Empty(arraySegment)` since `ArraySegment<T>` can throw an exception when calling `.GetEnumerator()`. [xunit/xunit#1970](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1970){ .issue-link }

* Fixed an issue with [xUnit2014](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2014) where anonymous async methods which returned the result of `.ConfigureAwait()` were not properly detected. [xunit/xunit.analyzers#126](https://github.com/xunit/xunit.analyzers/pull/126){ .issue-link }

### Extensibility Analyzers

* Fixed an issue with [xUnit3000](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit3000) where the fixer would crash on projects that only reference `xunit.abstractions`. The issue is still raised, but the fixer is not available (since the reference to `LongLivedMarshalByRefObject` requires a reference to `xunit.extensibility.execution`). [xunit/xunit#1574](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1574){ .issue-link } [xunit/xunit#1575](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1575){ .issue-link }

* Updated [xUnit3001](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit3001) to allow it to generate a new constructor in addition to being able to update an existing constructor.
