---
title: Analyzers 1.2.0
title-date: 2023 July 6
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new releases:

* xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.5.0` ([release notes](/releases/v2/2.5.0))
* **xUnit.net Analyzers `1.2.0`**
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter `2.5.0` ([release notes](/releases/visualstudio/2.5.0))

It's been 7 months since the release of [`1.1.0`](1.1.0).

This update includes a few new analyzers, lots of updates and bug fixes, and is the first version that officially supports xUnit.net v3 (which is still in alpha). Although we are shipping this with the v2 `2.5.0` core framework, as always this remains version independent, and can be used with tests written against any version of the v2 or v3 core framework.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This version takes a dependency on Roslyn `4.0.1`, which means that the only officially supported version of Visual Studio is 2022+, as well as any compatible version of the the C# plugin for Visual Studio Code, .NET SDK, and/or Mono.

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

> [!NOTE]
> We have moved away from Twitter for our occasional updates, and now make those available on our Mastodon account ([`@xunit@dotnet.social`](https://dotnet.social/@xunit)) and Bluesky account ([`@xunit.net`](https://bsky.app/profile/xunit.net)).

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `1.1.0` to `1.2.0`.

### Usage Analyzers

* Updated [xUnit1010](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1010): This was inadvertently triggering when you passed compatible data that had an explicit conversion operator (for example, passing a string in the data row, and the argument type in the test method supported an explicit conversion from string). This was working at runtime but incorrectly triggering in the analyzer. [xunit/xunit#2734](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2734){ .issue-link }

* Updated [xUnit1019](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1019): xUnit.net v3 now supports returning `ITheoryDataRow` in addition to `object[]` to represent a row of data. This new interface allows you to provide additional metadata along with a data row, including a skip message, a custom test display name, a timeout, traits, and a flag which indicates whether the data row should only be run when running explicit tests. The analyzer needed to be updated to not flag on this data type, when used in v3 tests. [xunit/xunit#2735](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2735){ .issue-link }

* Updated [xUnit1026](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1010): We will now ignore unused parameters when the name matches the discard logic specified by [IDE0060](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0060). That includes parameters named simply `_` as well parameters named starting with an underscore followed by a integer number (e.g., `_123`). [xunit/xunit#2730](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2730){ .issue-link }

* Added [xUnit1028](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1028): Test method must have a valid return type. For v2 tests, that means `void` or `Task`, and for v3 tests you can also return `ValueTask`. Any other return value is invalid. In particular, this should help people who may be accidentally returning `ValueTask` instead of `Task` for v2 tests, as v2 does not support `ValueTask`. [xunit/xunit#1415](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1415){ .issue-link } [xunit/xunit#2733](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2733){ .issue-link }

* Added [xUnit1029](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1029): Disallow xUnit.net attributes on local functions. Attributes on local functions are relatively new (introduced in C# 9). Adding the xUnit.net test attributes (like `[Fact]`) is legal in a compiler sense, but we do not discover nor support them. This analyzer should trigger on anything derived from `FactAttribute` or `DataAttribute`. [xunit/xunit#2277](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2277){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with [xUnit1010](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1010) where the analyzer was inadvertently triggering when you passed compatible data that had an explicit conversion operator (for example, passing a string in the data row, and the argument type in the test method supported an explicit conversion from string). This was working at runtime but incorrectly triggering in the analyzer. [xunit/xunit#2734](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2734){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with common code for [xUnit1010](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1010) and [xUnit1012](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1012) that was causing an exception in the analyzer when the user was passing an explicit empty array to provide values for a `params`-style array in the test method. A secondary issue (for non-empty explicit arrays) was also discovered and fixed at the same time. [xunit/xunit#2711](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2711){ .issue-link }


* **BUG:** Fixed a crash in `RemoveMethodParameterFix` (shared by [xUnit1022](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1022) and [xUnit1026](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1026)) caused by specifically malformed code in the text editor. [xunit/xunit#2675](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2675){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with [xUnit1025](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1025) where the analyzer was throwing an exception with specific input data (see the attached bug). [xunit/xunit#2662](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2662){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with [xUnit1033](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1033) where the fixer ("Generate constructor") generated a constructor that should've been public, but wasn't. [xunit/xunit#2721](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2721){ .issue-link }

### Assertion Analyzers

* Updated [xUnit2013](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2013): This analyzer would correctly trigger when using properties like `.Count` from a concrete collection type (f.e., `List<int>`) but not from an interface (f.e., `ICollection<int>`). [xunit/xunit#2736](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2736){ .issue-link }

* Updated [xUnit2018](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2018): We included support for the new `Assert.IsNotAssignableFrom` assertion. This includes an updated message in the analyzer, and updated code generation for the fixer. [xunit/xunit#2727](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2727){ .issue-link }

* Added [xUnit2020](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2020): When running against v2 2.5+ or v3, you should use `Assert.Fail(message)` rather than `Assert.True(false, message)` or `Assert.False(true, message)`. For projects targeting older versions of xUnit.net, this analyzer & fixer does not trigger. [xunit/xunit#2521](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2521){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with [xUnit2000](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2000) that incorrectly considered `new string(' ', 4)` to not be a constant expected value in `Assert.Equal`. [xunit/xunit#2394](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2394){ .issue-link }

### Miscellany

* The included `install.ps1` and `uninstall.ps1` files are now the signed versions provided by Microsoft.

* We have updated to version `4.0.1` of `Microsoft.CodeAnalysis`. In addition to bringing us up to date with latest language features, this also gives us better coverage when your tests are being compiled with the [Nullable Reference Types](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/csharp/nullable-references) feature enabled. This should allow us to enable future analyzers based on newer C# language features, and should also help our analyzers be more robust (as the libraries we're consuming now themselves are enabled for Nullable Reference Types).

* For those who contribute to the source of the analyzers, you'll notice that I did a lot of housekeeping on the source base. New and updated base classes for analyzers and fixers have been standardized across the board, the source has been cleaned up a bit, and most importantly, all fixer tests now require you to pass the fixer key so that only the exact known fixer is applied. This was kinda too loosely specified (optional integer indices), and I wanted to ensure maximum compatibility (and it should also slightly improve performance because the test system knows to only run the singular fixer).

* Included the README in the NuGet package.
