---
title: Analyzers 1.3.0
title-version: 2023 September 17
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new releases:

* xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.5.1` ([release notes](/releases/v2/2.5.1))
* **xUnit.net Analyzers `1.3.0`**
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter `2.5.1` ([release notes](/releases/visualstudio/2.5.1))

It's been 2 months since the release of [`1.2.0`](/releases/analyzers/1.2.0).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `1.2.0` to `1.3.0`.

### Usage Analyzers

* We have updated [xUnit1028](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1028) to only trigger when the user is has provided an invalid test method return type with a test method decorated with `[Fact]` or `[Theory]`. Since third party libraries may allow other returned types, they will no longer trigger this warning. (Third party extensions which provide their own analyzers should consider having a similar rule if you change the valid return types for test methods, including the case where you provide `FactAttribute` overrides but still have the same return type limitations.) [xunit/xunit#2749](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2749){ .issue-link }

* We have added a fixer for [xUnit1029](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1029) which removes the `[Fact]` or `[Theory]` attribute from the local function.

* We have introduced a new analyzer ([xUnit1030](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1030)) that will flag usage of `ConfigureAwait` on tasks as being problematic. Calling this on a task inside a test method will cause the remainder of the test method to be run on a thread pool thread rather than the original thread (which is used to limit the number of tests that run concurrently in parallel). [xunit/xunit#2628](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2628){ .issue-link }

* We have introduced a new analyzer ([xUnit1031](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1031)) that will flag usage of blocking task operations in a test method as being problematic. The operations that are flagged include:
 * `Task.GetAwaiter().GetResult()` * `Task.Wait()` * `Task.WaitAll()` * `Task.WaitAny()` * `Task<T>.GetAwaiter().GetResult()` * `Task<T>.Result` * `ValueTask.GetAwaiter().GetResult()` * `ValueTask<T>.GetAwaiter.GetResult()` * `ValueTask<T>.Result`
 Calling these inside a test method could cause performance issues and/or cause the test to become deadlocked, due to the limited number of threads available for running tests in parallel. [xunit/xunit#1390](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1390){ .issue-link }

* We have introduced a new analyzer ([xUnit1032](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1032)) that will flag test classes embedded inside a generic class. As there is no way for xUnit.net to know how to close the outer generic class to create instances of the inner test class, this is an error. [xunit/xunit#2528](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2528){ .issue-link }
