---
title: Analyzers 1.5.0
title-version: 2023 November 10
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping one new release:

* **xUnit.net Analyzers `1.5.0`**

It's been 1 month since the release of [`1.4.0`](/releases/analyzers/1.4.0).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `1.4.0` to `1.5.0`.

### Usage Analyzers

* [xUnit1012](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1012) has been updated to account for nullable reference types when passing `null` values into `[InlineData]`. [xunit/xunit#2189](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2189){ .issue-link } [xunit/xunit.analyzers#164](https://github.com/xunit/xunit.analyzers/pull/164){ .issue-link }

* Added three new analyzers to ensure that `[MemberData]` usage with data generation methods have compatible arguments: [xunit/xunit#2189](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2189){ .issue-link } [xunit/xunit.analyzers#165](https://github.com/xunit/xunit.analyzers/pull/165){ .issue-link }

  * [xUnit1034](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1034) is reported when you pass `null`     to a parameter that is not nullable.
  * [xUnit1035](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1035) is reported when the argument type is not     compatible with the parameter type.
  * [xUnit1036](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1036) is reported when you provide too many arguments.

* Added four new analyzers to help users return `TheoryData<>` from `[MemberData]`: [xunit/xunit#2189](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2189){ .issue-link } [xunit/xunit.analyzers#166](https://github.com/xunit/xunit.analyzers/pull/166){ .issue-link }

  * [xUnit1037](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1037) is reported when you have too few generic types     in `TheoryData<>` for your test method.
  * [xUnit1038](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1038) is reported when you have too many generic types     in `TheoryData<>` for your test method.
  * [xUnit1039](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1039) is reported when one of the generic types in     `TheoryData<>` is not compatible with the corresponding parameter in your test method.
  * [xUnit1040](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1040) is reported when your generic type in     `TheoryData<>` is a nullable reference type but the test method parameter is not nullable.

### Assertion Analyzers

* Analysis in [xUnit2014](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2014) was updated to remove support for `ValueTask` in the `Assert.Throws` since it is no longer supported as of 2.6.1 (due to compiler ambiguity problems with async lambdas).

* Added [xUnit2021](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2021) to warn developers when async assertions are not being awaited. This includes:

  * `Assert.PropertyChangedAsync`
  * `Assert.RaisesAnyAsync`
  * `Assert.RaisesAsync`
  * `Assert.ThrowsAnyAsync`
  * `Assert.ThrowsAsync`

  This feature is limited to just assertions shipped with xUnit.net; it does not include third party assertions nor any calls to non-assertion async methods. Note that while [CS4014](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/compiler-messages/cs4014) can report un-awaited tasks, it will only do so if the method is already marked as `async`. xUnit2021 will always be reported regardless of whether the test method is `async` or not (and is reported as an Error, while CS4014 is reported as a Warning). [xunit/xunit#2346](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2346){ .issue-link }

* Added [xUnit2022](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2022) to suggest to developers that they should not use a negated expression with `Assert.True` or `Assert.False`, and should instead use a non-negated expression with the opposite assertion. [xunit/xunit#1435](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1435){ .issue-link }


