---
title: Analyzers 1.7.0
title-version: 2023 December 8
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new releases:

* xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.6.3` ([release notes](/releases/v2/2.6.3))
* **xUnit.net Analyzers `1.7.0`**
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter `2.5.5` ([release notes](/releases/visualstudio/2.5.5))

It's been 3 weeks since the release of [`1.6.0`](1.6.0).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The minimum version for the analyzers is now Visual Studio 2022 17.2, as version 17.0 is no longer supported by Microsoft. This aligns with version Roslyn 4.2. Notably, the latest version of C# that's supported in Roslyn 4.2 is C# 10 (with some support for features that were experimental and ended up in C# 11), so some language features beyond C# 10 may cause false positives in analyzers, as well as not picking up any bug fixes in Roslyn since this release.

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `1.6.0` to `1.7.0`.

### Usage Analyzers

* Added [xUnit1041](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1041) which verifies that any fixture arguments in the constructor of your test class have an appropriate fixture source. This can also highlight an issue where a developer places a test collection definition in the wrong assembly, as this can be difficult to identify. [xunit/xunit#2311](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2311){ .issue-link }

* Added [xUnit1042](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1042) which suggests to developers that any member-based data source could use [`TheoryData<>`](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/blob/v2/src/xunit.core/TheoryData.cs) to get type-safe compiler support for their data, as well as being able to take advantage of several of the new `TheoryData`-related analyzers that were added in 1.6.0. [xunit/xunit#1244](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1244){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issues with [xUnit1010](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1010), [xUnit1011](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1011), and [xUnit1012](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1012) that might cause a yellow-bar in Visual Studio showing an `ArgumentOutOfRangeException` from `InlineDataMustMatchTheoryParameters`. [xunit/xunit#2823](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2826){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed two issues with [xUnit1035](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1035), [xUnit1036](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1036), and [xUnit1039](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1036) that was causing false positives with some usages of arrays when passing to a `params` array in the test method. [xunit/xunit#2826](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2826){ .issue-link } [xunit/xunit#2827](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2827){ .issue-link }

### Assertion Analyzers

* Added [xUnit2024](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2024) which detects some usage of `Assert.True` or `Assert.False` with equality statements using constant values of strings, integral values, floating point values, decimal values, or enum values. A fixer is available that will convert to `Assert.Equal` or `Assert.NotEqual` as appropriate. [xunit/xunit#1503](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1503){ .issue-link }

* Added [xUnit2025](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2025) which detects some usage of `Assert.True` or `Assert.False` with equality statements that compare against literal `true` or `false` values. A fixer is available that will simplify the expression (and swap to the opposite assertion function, if needed). [xunit/xunit#1503](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/1503){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with the fixer for [xUnit2023](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2023) that caused a yellow-bar exception in Visual Studio.
