---
title: Analyzers 1.8.0
title-version: 2023 December 22
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new releases:

* xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.6.4` ([release notes](/releases/v2/2.6.4))
* **xUnit.net Analyzers `1.8.0`**
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter `2.5.6` ([release notes](/releases/visualstudio/2.5.6))

It's been 2 weeks since the release of [`1.7.0`](1.7.0).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

> [!IMPORTANT]
> We have re-added support for Visual Studio 2019 16.11+. This is in addition to supporting Visual Studio 2022 17.2+. This means the minimum compiler (Roslyn) version is now 3.11 rather than 4.2. In addition we are also providing builds to explicitly support 17.4 (4.4), 17.6 (4.6), and 17.8 (4.8), which means any issues related to our inability to explicitly support C# 12 should now be resolved. Third party support for analyzers (for example, in Mono or JetBrains Rider) should be arranged through those third parties, as we do not directly support them (though of course we are happy to incorporate PRs to fix any issues in our code related to them).

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from `1.7.0` to `1.8.0`.

### Usage Analyzers

* We have updated [xUnit1030](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1030) to handle [`ConfigureAwaitOptions`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.threading.tasks.configureawaitoptions) which was introduced in .NET 8. When using this overload, the analyzer ensures that `ConfigureAwaitOptions.ContinueOnCapturedContext` is directly part of the call (meaning, we do not analyze variables for this value, we expect to see this literal value directly in the call itself). We have also extended the fixes here to include the ability to pass this value, as well to to convert a call from `false` to `true` for the older API (as the old fixer only provided the ability to remove the call to `ConfigureAwait` entirely). [xunit/xunit#2849](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2849){ .issue-link }

* Because of the common usage of third party data sources, we have made the decision to shift [xUnit1041](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1041) from Error to Warning. We strongly recommend people using third party fixture sources to disable this rule entirely, and hopefully third party libraries can provide their own analyzer which includes both the built-in fixture sources and their own custom fixture sources.

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with [xUnit1041](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1041) where base classes were not being checked for `[Collection]` attributes. [xunit/xunit#2845](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2845){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** Fixed an issue with [xUnit1041](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1041) where optional constructor parameters to test classes weren't being ignored. [xunit/xunit#2846](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2846){ .issue-link }
