---
title: Analyzers 1.9.0
title-version: 2024 January 4
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping two new releases:

* xUnit.net Core Framework v2 `2.6.5` ([release notes](/releases/v2/2.6.5))
* **xUnit.net Analyzers `1.9.0`**

It's been 2 weeks since the release of [`1.8.0`](/releases/analyzers/1.8.0).

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a comprehensive list of changes from 1.8.0 to 1.9.0.

### Usage Analyzers

* **BUG:** We fixed an issue in [xUnit1030](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1030) that was raising a diagnostic inappropriately for using `ConfigureAwait` inside of a lambda expression. [xunit/xunit.analyzers#177](https://github.com/xunit/xunit.analyzers/pull/177){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We fixed an issue in [xUnit1031](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1031) that was raising a diagnostic inappropriately for code using blocking `Task` methods inside of a lambda expression. [xunit/xunit#2856](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2856){ .issue-link }

* **BUG:** We fixed an issue in [xUnit1034](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1034) that was misidentifying array initializers in `[InlineData]` as being `null`. [xunit/xunit#2852](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2852){ .issue-link }

### Assertion Analyzers

* Added [xUnit2026](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2026) to detect when developers called `Assert.Equal` or `Assert.NotEqual` with two sets, using the function overload for comparisons. Due to the way sets are implemented internally, a full implementation of `IEqualityComparer<T>` is required, because the implementations of `Equals` and `GetHashCode` must be consistent (so just passing the equivalent of `Equals` as a function is not sufficient for proper comparisons). [xunit/xunit#2840](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/2840){ .issue-link }

* Added [xUnit2027](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit2027) to detect when developers called `Assert.Equal` or `Assert.NotEqual` with a set (like `HashSet`) and a linear collection (like an array or list). Since sets are not stored in linear fashion, they have an unpredictable enumeration order, which can cause false positives or false negatives during testing. Applying an order to the set (for example, using LINQ's `OrderBy` extension method) ensures that the set becomes linear with a predictable order.
