---
title: Analyzers 2.0.0-pre.40
title-version: 2026 April 11
logo-title: true
css: release-notes.css
---

Today, we're shipping three new prereleases:

* xUnit.net Core Framework v3 `4.0.0-pre.81` ([release notes](/releases/v3/4.0.0-pre.81))
* **xUnit.net Analyzers `2.0.0-pre.40`**
* xUnit.net Visual Studio adapter `4.0.0-pre.4` ([release notes](/releases/visualstudio/4.0.0-pre.4))

This is the second prerelease build for the 2.0 release. This is shipping alongside Core Framework v3 4.0.0-pre.81, and the primary feature of this release is adding diagnostics that were previously emitted by the source generators in Native AOT.

As always, we'd like to thank all the users who contributed to the success of xUnit.net through usage, feedback, and code. 🎉

## Release Notes

These release notes are a list of changes from `2.0.0-pre.9` to `2.0.0-pre.40`.

### Usage Analyzers

* We have updated [xUnit1007](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1007) to stop triggering when the `[ClassData]` source implements either `IEnumerable` or `IEnumerable<object>`. Although these signatures are not ideal, they do permit returning data that otherwise implements one of the required contracts (`object[]` for v2 and v3, as well as `ITheoryDataRow` and `ITuple` for v3). [xunit/xunit#3507](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3507){: .issue-link }

* We have updated [xUnit1019](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1019) to stop triggering when the `[MemberData]` source implements either `IEnumerable` or `IEnumerable<object>`. Although these signatures are not ideal, they do permit returning data that otherwise implements one of the required contracts (`object[]` for v2 and v3, as well as `ITheoryDataRow` and `ITuple` for v3). [xunit/xunit#3508](https://github.com/xunit/xunit/issues/3508){: .issue-link }

* We have added [xUnit1054](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1054) ("Properties used for conditional skipping must be public, static, and return bool"). This diagnostic is raised when either `SkipUnless` or `SkipWhen` properties don't point to an appropriate property.

* We have added [xUnit1055](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1055) ("Conditional skipping cannot set both SkipUnless and SkipWhen"). This diagnostic is raised when both `SkipUnless` and `SkipWhen` are set.

* We have added [xUnit1056](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1056) ("Type must have a single public non-static constructor"). This diagnostic is raised when a given type is required to have a single public constructor. This includes test classes and test fixtures.

* We have added [xUnit1057](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1057) ("Type must be public or internal"). This diagnostic is raised when a given type must have either `public` or `internal` visibility so that the Native AOT source generators can reference the type. This is only raised in Native AOT mode, and does not affect reflection mode.

* We have added [xUnit1058](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1058) ("Generic collection definitions are not supported in Native AOT"). This diagnostic is raised when a collection definition class is defined as a generic class. Closing open generics is not available in Native AOT.

* We have added [xUnit1059](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1059) ("Test classes may not be decorated with ICollectionFixture<>"). This diagnostic is raised when a test class was decorated with `ICollectionFixture`, as test classes cannot specify collection fixtures (only collection definitions can).

* We have added [xUnit1060](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1060) ("Cultured test methods must have at least one culture"). This diagnostic is raised when a cultured tests (using `CulturedFact` or `CulturedTheory`) specifies zero cultures, which would result in zero tests.

* We have added [xUnit1061](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1061) ("Fact methods cannot be generic"). This diagnostic is raised when a test method decorated with `[Fact]` or `[CulturedFact]` is an open generic. Since there is no data around which to close the open generic, this is not legal.

* We have added [xUnit1062](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1062) ("Theory methods cannot be generic in Native AOT"). This diagnostic is raised when a test method decorated with `[Theory]` or `[CulturedTheory]` is an open generic. Closing open generics is not available in Native AOT.

* We have added [xUnit1063](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1063) ("Test class cannot be an open generic type"). This diagnostic is raised when a test class is an open generic type. Since there is no data around which to close the open generic, this is not legal.

* We have added [xUnit1064](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1064) ("Theory parameter cannot use params modifier in Native AOT"). This diagnostic is raised when a test method parameter is marked with the `params` modifier. Support for `params` parameters is not available in Native AOT.

* We have added [xUnit1065](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1065) ("MemberData member may not be overloaded in Native AOT"). This diagnostic is raised when `[MemberData]` points to an overloaded method in Native AOT mode. Support for resolving the method ambiguity is not available in Native AOT mode.

* We have added [xUnit1066](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1066) ("MemberData parameter cannot use params modifier in Native AOT"). This diagnostic is raised when a method referenced by `[MemberData]` has a parameter with the `params` modifier. Support for `params` parameters is not available in Native AOT.

* We have added [xUnit1067](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit1067) ("There is no matching MemberData method argument"). This diagnostic is raised when the `[MemberData]` attribute does not provide enough arguments for the method.

### Extensibility Analyzers

* We have added [xUnit3004](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit3004) ("Type does not implement interface"). This diagnostic is raised when the analyzer determines that a given type needs to implement an interface that it does not. The interfaces currently supported here are:

  * `ICodeGenTestCollectionFactory` (for `CollectionBehaviorAttribute` in Native AOT mode)
  * `IConsoleResultWriter` (for `RegisterConsoleResultWriterAttribute` and `RegisterResultWriterAttribute`)
  * `IMicrosoftTestingPlatformResultWriter` (for `RegisterMicrosoftTestingPlatformResultWriterAttribute` and `RegisterResultWriterAttribute`)
  * `IRunnerReporter` (for `RegisterRunnerReporterAttribute`)
  * `ITestCaseOrderer` (for test case orderers)
  * `ITestClassOrderer` (for test class orderers)
  * `ITestCollectionOrderer` (for test collection orderers)
  * `ITestFramework` (for `TestFrameworkAttribute`)
  * `ITestMethodOrderer` (for test method orderers)
  * `ITestPipelineStartup` (for `TestPipelineStartupAttribute`)
  * `IXunitSerializer` (for `RegisterXunitSerializerAttribute`)
  * `IXunitTestCollectionFactory` (for `CollectionBehaviorAttribute` in reflection mode)

* We have added [xUnit3005](/xunit.analyzers/rules/xUnit3005) ("Type must have an appropriate non-obsolete public constructor"). This diagnostic is raised when an appropriate constructor cannot be found for the given extensibility type; the constructor must be public, non-static, and non-`[Obsolete]`. Those types include:

  * Assembly fixtures (no parameters)
  * `ICodeGenTestCollectionFactory` implementations (single parameter `ICodeGenTestAssembly testAssembly`)
  * `IConsoleResultWriter` implementations (no parameters)
  * `IMicrosoftTestingPlatformResultWriter` implementations (no parameters)
  * `IRunnerReporter` implementations (no parameters)
  * `ITestCaseOrderer` implementations (no parameters)
  * `ITestClassOrderer` implementations (no parameters)
  * `ITestCollectionOrderer` implementations (no parameters)
  * `ITestFramework` (single parameter `string? configFileName`, or no parameters)
  * `ITestMethodOrderer` implementations (no parameters)
  * `ITestPipelineStartup` implementations (no parameters)
  * `IXunitSerializer` implementations (no parameters)
  * `IXunitTestCollectionFactory` implementations (single parameter `IXunitTestAssembly testAssembly`)
